## Usage of Envelopes

Gordian Envelopes are a foundational architecture that we expect to support many advanced projects involving self-sovereign control of digital assets.

Currently, it's being used in two major Blockchain Commons projects.

* **Crypto-request/response.** Requests and responses are specified ways to ask for and send information needed for self-sovereign operations, including when transmitting across an Airgap. Our second generation of requests and responses encodes those communications in Gordian Envelopes.
* **Collaborative Seed Recovery.** The [CSR system](https://github.com/BlockchainCommons/Gordian/blob/master/CSR/README.md) requires the use of Smart Documents to store shares of seeds that have been sharded for backup and recovery. The Gordian Envelope is thus the heart of that system.

There are a broad swath of additional use cases, some of which can be found in our [Use Case Overview of Envelopes](https://github.com/BlockchainCommons/Gordian/blob/master/Envelope/Use-Cases/README.md). These include:

* **User-centric Educational Certification**: All sorts of credentials can be created in Gordian Envelopes, but certifications and other educational credentials are likely to be some of the most popular. These can be credentials signed by accredited institutions or by Web of Trust peers. Elision and third-party manipulation can allow these credentials to be safely passed around for a variety of purposes. Herd privacy features can create even greater anonymity. 
   * _Example Transactions:_ institutions can issue centralized credentials; individuals can issue peer-to-peer credentials using metadata to assist validation; subjects can elide credentials to preserve privacy or prevent discrimination; third-party holders can further elide credentials based on their own risk models; all parties can repackage credentials with signatures or additional information; issuers can create large batches of credentials and issue individual proofs to credential holders, allowing them to either reveal their credentials or maintain herd privacy. _(See [Educational Use Case](https://github.com/BlockchainCommons/Gordian/blob/master/Envelope/Use-Cases/Educational.md))_
* **Resilient Asset Control:** There are many different use cases for helping users to resiliently control their digital assets, going beyond the specific design of CSR. These include the inclusion of metadata for resilience, the usage of salts to block correlation, and the creation of variable-use permits to allow multiple ways to open an envelope. 
   * _Example Transactions:_ users can store private keys, seeds, or other vulnerable data using encryption; users can improve the resilience of data with unencrypted metadata; users can alternatively wrap envelopes to encrypt their data entirety; users can use Shamir's Secret Sharing or other sharding technologies to resiliently lock data so that it can be restored by bringing together multiple envelopes, each of which contains a share and the encrypted data; users can create multi-permits that further improve resilience by allowing their data to be recovered in multiple ways, such as either with sharded shares or a private key. _(See [Assets Use Case](https://github.com/BlockchainCommons/Gordian/blob/master/Envelope/Use-Cases/Financial.md))_
* **Structured Software Release:** The standardization of Gordian Envelopes is another of their strengths. Case studies involving source-control signing demonstrate how a field that is currently managed in a variety of different ways could allow for real improvements in security.
   * _Example Transactions:_ structured data can standardize software releases and ensure that all validation data is in one place; multiple signatures can allow verification by multiple sources; releases can be chained, so that once a user trusts one software release, they know to trust all future software releases; changes in release signers can be introduced through chained releases in an automated way that maintains trust.  _(See [Software Industry Use Cases](https://github.com/BlockchainCommons/Gordian/blob/master/Envelope/Use-Cases/Software.md).)_
* **Privacy-Focused Data Transfer:** The privacy-ready design of Gordian Envelopes allows for use cases where elision is used differently over time, including progressive trust and situations whree data is differently elided for different circumstances.
   * _Example Transactions:_ structured data can be publicly released; data can be authenticated through signatures and validation; data can be differently elided for different sorts of queries; data can be released through a model of progressive trust by slowly reducing elision; data can be entirely elided so that it's only visible to queries that know to ask for the data; data can be entirely elided so that it's only visible to queries if someone provides a hash and a proof that allows them to verify the data. _(See [Data Distribution Use Cases](https://github.com/BlockchainCommons/Gordian/blob/master/Envelope/Use-Cases/Data.md).)_

## Envelope Links

